Add compression streams API article (#3557)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/compression-streams-api/index.md

---
title: Compression and decompression in the browser with the Compression Streams API
subhead: >
  Write smaller web apps that don't need to ship their owm compression or decompression library
date: 2022-08-26
hero: image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/koW7cNlWa6BUlJsQR4wI.jpg
alt: Clamp to symbolize how data gets compressed.
author: thomassteiner
tags:

>   - blog

Author: ```suggestion
  - capabilities
```

---

The [Compression Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Compression_Streams_API)
provides a JavaScript API for compressing and decompressing streams of data using the gzip or
deflate (or deflate-raw) formats.

Built in compression means that JavaScript applications will not need to include a compression
library, which makes the download size of the application smaller. After Chrome, now Safari, too,
supports this useful API. You can use it as shown in the snippet below.

```js
const readableStream = await fetch('lorem.txt').then((response) => response.body);
const compressedReadableStream = readableStream.pipeThrough(new CompressionStream('gzip'));
```

To decompress, pipe the compressed stream through the decompression stream.

```js
const decompressedReadableStream = compressedReadableStream.pipeThrough(new DecompressionStream('gzip'));
```

## Demo

> {% Glitch 'compressionstream-demo' %}

Author: ```suggestion
{% Glitch { id: 'compressionstream-demo' } %}
```

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: Compression and decompression in the browser with the Compression Streams API
subhead: >
  Write smaller web apps that don't need to ship their own compression or decompression library
date: 2022-08-26
hero: image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/koW7cNlWa6BUlJsQR4wI.jpg
alt: Clamp to symbolize how data gets compressed.
author: thomassteiner
tags:
  - capabilities
---

The [Compression Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Compression_Streams_API)

> provides a JavaScript API for compressing and decompressing streams of data using the gzip or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is for compressing and decompressing streams of data using the gzip or
```

Reviewer: I think we can assume our readers know this is a JavaScript API.

deflate (or deflate-raw) formats.

> Built in compression means that JavaScript applications will not need to include a compression

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With built in compression JavaScript applications do not need to include a compression
```

> library, making the download size of the application smaller. Chrome and Safari Technology Preview now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
library, making the download size of the application smaller. Stable Chrome and Safari Technology Preview now
```

Reviewer: As originally written, I took this to mean that the feature was in beta or canary. The other option was to list Safari first.

> library, which makes the download size of the application smaller. After Chrome, now Safari, too,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
library, making the download size of the application smaller. Chrome and Safari now
```

Reviewer 2: ah is it just in TP? If so we can't say it's supported in Safari as we don't know when. Is it in the 16 beta? If not I'd say it's coming soon to Safari.

Author: I'll just say STP instead of Safari then.

> support this useful API. To compress, you can use the API as shown in the snippet below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support this useful API. Compressing data is shown below.
```

> supports this useful API. To compress, you can use the API as shown in the snippet below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
support this useful API. To compress, you can use the API as shown in the snippet below.
```

```js
const readableStream = await fetch('lorem.txt').then(
  (response) => response.body
);
const compressedReadableStream = readableStream.pipeThrough(
  new CompressionStream('gzip')
);
```

> To decompress, pipe the compressed stream through the decompression stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decompress, pipe a compressed stream through the decompression stream.
```

```js
const decompressedReadableStream = compressedReadableStream.pipeThrough(
  new DecompressionStream('gzip')
);
```

## Demo

{% Glitch { id: 'compressionstream-demo' } %}

## Browser support

> The Compression Streams API is supported since Chromium&nbsp;80 and Safari Technology Preview&nbsp;152.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Compression Streams API is supported from Chromium&nbsp;80 and Safari Technology Preview&nbsp;152.
```
